# Emerging-Trends-Machine-Learning

This project represents a DQN (Deep Q Neural Network) learning program that was compiled in Python on Jupyter Notebook. This project was created to solve a a machine learning game provided by a gym from OpenAI in which an agent must learn to solve a maze by taking the shortest path. The program uses Q-learning and exploration/exploitation to navigate its environment and determine a policy with which to choose the next action based on the calculated reward value. It uses a neural network to record its experiences when developing its policy, and records its win rate. The neural network and environment were both provided and only the code involved in its playing was directly affected by me. The DQN functions largely in thanks to established concepts such as the Markov Decision Process, Epsilon Greedy Action Policy, and the Bellman Equation.

This was a fantastic experience both using neural networks as well as Python. The potentiality for machine learning in our modern day is slowly becoming a reality, as scientists have already developed computer systems capable of outperforming humans at games. The factor that separates us from machines, however, is that machines depend on an incredibly vast amount of data and trials in order to self optimize. Humans can learn how a game works in a couple playthroughs, but a computer must play thousands of iterations to develop a sufficient enough database to create a policy for decision making. Learning about the way machines learn has also allowed us to reverse engineering certain aspects of our own learning abilities, which contributes to the grander perspective of the world around us. 
